Shell Docs Sections
================================

A function documentation section for ShellNS is defined as a comment block 
positioned on the lines immediately above the function declaration it is 
describing.
This is a notation very similar to that used by many other programming 
languages.


&nbsp;
&nbsp;


## Sections and subsections

A documentation block is logically divided by writing conventions that are 
defined in the rules below.  
Sections may in turn be divided into subsections, but subsections may not be 
internal divisions.

It is important to stick to the correct notation in order to write valid 
documentation. Otherwise, analyzers will not be able to correctly interpret the 
information prescribed therein.


&nbsp;
&nbsp;


## Generic model

In this section we will look at a generic example of a documentation block that 
will be used in the other sections.

``` shell
  #
  # [FreeText
  #   [Summary]
  #
  #   [Description]
  # ]
  #
  # [Parameters Section]
  # @param 
  #
  # [Return Section]
  # @return
  my_function() {
    ...
  }
```

&nbsp;


### Summary

**Type**: Implicit  

**OBS**: _The rules described here apply to any section of documentation that 
has free text as part of its description (usually functions, parameters, and 
return)._

The beginning of Summary will ALWAYS be the first non-empty line reserved for 
free text in the respective section and will go all the way to the first blank 
line found or when you arrive at a section that has an explicit beginning.

Use this space to define a shortened description of the object being 
described.  
As a good practice, always try to make your Summary fit in the fewest words and 
that it has a maximum of 2 lines of description (or 160 chars).

&nbsp;


### Description

**Type**: Implicit  

**OBS**: _The rules described here apply to any section of documentation that 
has free text as part of its description (usually functions, parameters, and 
return)._

A description section starts with the first non-empty line after the end of the 
Summary and goes to the beginning of the next section that has an explicit 
beginning.

This is the appropriate space to write at will about its function or object. 
Still, try not to prolong the text too long. Ensure that only information that 
is really necessary is used.


&nbsp;


### Parameters Section

**Type**: Explicit  

In this space you should write about each parameter that your function is able 
to receive and how it should be.

This section starts at the first parameter description found in the block and 
goes on to find an explicit description that is not a parameter.

It is highly recommended that you know the specific rules to describe the 
parameters properly. For this, be sure to know the manual [Parameters Section](05.1%20Parameters%20Section.md).

&nbsp;


### Return Section

**Type**: Explicit  

Here you should describe what kind of return your function offers.  
Usually this should be the last section described in your documentation block.

To learn how to correctly write the Return section visit the manual [Return Section](05.2%20Return%20Section.md).

&nbsp;


### Custom sections

You are free to define your own sections as long as they are of the explicit 
type.  
To do this, start them with **@** followed by the name of the same.

Note that the use or not of this information varies according to the capacity 
of the analyzers being used.



&nbsp;
&nbsp;

________________________________________________________________________________

### Navigation

- [Previous](04.0%20Expanding%20Types.md)
- [Next](05.1%20Parameters%20Section.md)
