Parameters Section
================================

The parameters section starts with the first parameter described and goes on 
until it finds an explicitly defined section that is not another parameter.

As a rule, each parameter section works analogously to the description of a 
function, but in this case, subsections are not accepted.


&nbsp;
&nbsp;


## Generic model

In this section we will look at a generic example of a parameter description 
block.  

``` shell
  #
  # ...
  #
  # @param [paramType] [paramPos]
  # [Properties]
  # [FreeText
  #   [Summary]
  #
  #   [Description]
  # ]
  #
  # ...
  #
```


&nbsp;
&nbsp;


### @param

Each parameter MUST ALWAYS start with this directive.  
It indicates the beginning of the parameter section and also makes it possible 
to separate each parameter section from the next.


#### paramType

Use one of the variable types described earlier in this manual here.  
This information can be used to validate an input made by a user and thus guide 
them when using their function.


#### paramPos

Explicitly indicate the position that the parameter should be positioned when 
evoking its function ($1, $2, $3 ...).

&nbsp;


### Properties

If it exists, it should be the first information allocated after the start of 
the respective section.

The properties expand the basic definitions of the parameters, allowing you to 
indicate characteristics such as default value, accepted minimums and maximums, 
among other characteristics, which create a more precise context to be used by 
analyzers, which in turn can use this information to provide the user with 
filling tips, in addition to enabling a richer prior validation than just 
checking the type.

To learn how to set up a Properties section, visit the topic [Type Properties](05.2%20Type%20Properties.md).


&nbsp;
&nbsp;

________________________________________________________________________________

### Navigation

- [Previous](05.0%20Shell%20Docs%20Section.md)
- [Next](05.2%20Type%20Properties.md)
